
### Goals
- The trainee will understand how file permissions work in Linux
- The trainee will know how to change file permissions and owners
- The trainee will know how to set up acls for specific users

### Tasks
- use the command `ls -l /etc/hosts`
  - Explain the file permission structure
  - Which parameter indecates the type of the file?
  - Which file types exist in the Linux environment?
- Use stat to examine '/etc/hosts' full file permissions
- Which command will set our default system permissions into 0640 (use umask)?
- Which command will set our default system permissions into -rw——- (use umask)?
- Explain what is the sticky bit
- Explain the usage of the GroupID and UserID bit
- Run `ls -l /usr/bin/passwd`, explain the output
- Explain how can `/usr/bin/passwd` edit the passwords of users
- How would you change the user and group ownership for all the content of a directory?
- What happens (permission-wise) to a copied file?
- Which kind of permissions are needed in order to copy a file from its current directory to a new location?
- How would you add permissions to a specific user?
- Follow the instruction bellow:
  - Inside your home directory, create a 'stickydir' directory with a sticky bit on
  - Inside 'stickydir', create 'file1' that contains the following text: “Hello World”
  - Change the permissions to -rw——- (use the numeric notation)
  - Add an execute permission to the group (use the symbolic notation)
  - Set 'no permissions' to others (use '=’;sign)
  - Change file’s group to 'wheel'
  - Give the user 'charlie' read persmission on the file without changing the file owner or group